Seat No. / Enrolment No.:

## GUJARAT TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY

Diploma Engineering - SEMESTER - 1 (NEW) - EXAMINATION - Summer-2025

Subject Code: DI01000031

Date: 05-06-2025

Subject Name: Communication Skills in English

Time: 10:30 AM TO 01:00 PM

Total Marks: 70

Instructions:

1. Attempt all questions.

2. Make Suitable assumptions wherever necessary.

3. Figures to the right indicate full marks.

4. Use of simple calculators and non-programmable scientific calculators are permitted.

5. English version is authentic.

- Q.1 Choose the correct answer for the following questions.

14

- (1) Factors that disturb the process of communication is called \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

(A) Enhances.      (B) Improvements.      (C) Barriers.      (D) None of the above

- (2) The response to a sender's message is called

(A) Feedback.      (B) Sender      (C) Receiver      (D) Channel

- (3) who visited the stream regularly?

(A) The forktail      (B) the leopard      (C) the tiger      (D) the peahen

- (4) Which is a part of the process of communication from the following?

(A) Proxemics      (B) Mass      (C) Encoding      (D) Writing

- (5) Physical appearance is an example of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ communication

(A) Oral      (B) written      (C) verbal      (D) non-verbal

- (6) What made Bob realise that the cop was not Jimmy Wells?

(A) His eyes      (B) His Nose      (C) His Hair      (D) His Jaw

- (7) linguistic barrier means barrier related to

(A) Language      (B) Expression     (C) All of the above      (D) None of the above

- (8) The communication process starts from

- (A) Sender      (B) Receiver     (C) Channel      (D) Feedback

- (9) "He gives his harness bells a shake". Who is he?

(A) The author.      (B) The visitor.      (C) The hunter.      (D) The horse

- (10) "Stopping by woods on a snowy evening" is written by

(A) Robert Frost      (B) Robert Burns      (C) Oscar Wilde      (D) John Milton

- (11) during our verbal communication, we should use

(A) Difficult words.      (B) Simple words.      (C) Confusing words.      (D) Abbreviations

- (12) The hunters used to sell leopard's skin in \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

(A) Kolkata.      (B) Lucknow.      (C) Mumbai.      (D) Delhi

- (13) Which of the following is not a form of nonverbal communication?

- (A) Touch.      (B) Facial Expression.      (C) Skype.      (D) Physical proximity

- (14) how long had Bob bean under arrest for?

(A) 5 mins.      (B) 10 mins.      (C) 15 mins.      (D) 30 mins

- Q.2 (A) Attempt any two

06

- (1) Define the term communication and mention the types of communication.

- (2) Where did the poet stop in the poem and how did the horse react to it?

- (3) "The birds and animals knew that that trust had been violated." What does the author want to convey by the statement?

- (B) Attempt any two

08

- (1) Write a short note on barriers of communication

- (2) Talk about the central idea of the poem 'Stopping by Woods On a Snowy Evening'.

- (3) Describe the ravine.

- Q.3 (A) Attempt any two

06

- (1) Identify sentence pattern of the following sentences:

- 1.1 The thief was punished.

- 1.2 The guests came suddenly.

- 1.3 His mother is a doctor.

- (2) Use proper preposition in the following sentence:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Monday, he started his work \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 9 o'clock \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ the morning.

- (3) Select the right verb for the following sentences:

- 3.1 Gulliver's Travels \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ written by Jonathan Swift. (was,were)

3.2 Diamond and Platinum \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ precious metals. (is,are)

3.3 Time and tide \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ for no man. (wait,waits)

- (B) Attempt any two

08

- (1) Fill in the blanks using proper verb

1.1 My friend \_\_\_\_\_\_ (work)in the garden and suddenly he\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (hear) noise

from outside.

1.2 She\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (leave) restaurant before her friends \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (arrive).

- (2) Fill in the blanks using proper verb

- 2.1 I \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ speak French fluently when I was a child but now I \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ not.

2.2 They \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ be out. All lights are off. We \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ come back tomorrow.

- (3) Fill in the blanks using proper verb

- 3.1 My father \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (wash) his car every Sunday. He \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (do) it now because of yesterday's heavy rain.

- 3.2 You \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ not go to the market late at night. (Could, should)

- 3.3 Tek an umbrella. It \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ rain later. (Might, can)

- Q.4   (A) Attempt any two.

06

- (1) Form three sentences of the sentence pattern: S+V+O

- (2) Fill in the blanks in the following lines:

She \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (be) a fashion designer. She \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (make) new clothes ever

since she   \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (be) a young girl.

- (3) Use proper verb given in the bracket for the following lines :

Plastic bags \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ not be used because they cause pollution. These bags \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ to be   melted and reprocessed, which \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ make them even more harmful. (Need, might, should)

- (B) Attempt any two

- (1) Identify adjective: "It was a sunny day and my little puppy jumped onto our red couch and   played with his new toy."

- (2) Join the sentence using the appropriate connector.

- 2.1 The police officer came. He was a friend of my father's. (Use of Who)

- 2.2 The children were playing. It started raining. ( Use of When)

- 2.3 She left the job. She did not mention the reason. ( Use Why)

- 2.4 He did not go to college. He was not keeping well. (Use because)

- (3) Select the right verb for the following sentences:

- 3.1 The rise and fall of the empire \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ dependent on its ruler. (is,are)

- 3.2 Two hours \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ enough for them to finish the assignment. (is, are)

- 3.3 The committee \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ taken the decision. (has, have)

- 3.4 His knowledge of various languages \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ appalling. ( is,are)

- Q.5  (A) Attempt any one

06

- (1) Write a paragraph on your favourite festival.

- (2) Write a paragraph on 'Climate Change: Human Impact on the Environment'

- (B) Attempt any one

08

- (1) Draft an email to make an inquiry of Air conditioners for your newly constructed branch office.

- (2) You have placed an order for raincoats and umbrellas, but the order has not been delivered on time. Draft an email of complaint to the supplier about the delay.

*************************************