Seat No. / Enrolment No.:

## GUJARAT TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY

Diploma Engineering/ Diploma Architecture - SEM - 1  EXAMINATION - Summer-2025

Subject Code: 4300002

Date: 30-05-2025

Subject Name: Communication Skills in English

Time: 10:30 AM TO 01:00 PM

Total Marks: 70

Instructions:

1. Attempt all questions.
2. Make Suitable assumptions wherever necessary.
3. Figures to the right indicate full marks.
4. Use of simple calculators and non-programmable scientific calculators are permitted.
5. English version is authentic.

## Q.1 Answer the following questions. (Any seven)

1. What kind of man is Jimmy?
2. What does the poet mean by 'ever -widening thought and action'?
3. Describe ' heaven ' imagined by the poet.
4. What promise did Jimmy and Bob make twenty years ago?
5. Describe the end of the story 'After Twenty Years'.
6. What did the narrator see and feel when reached atop Pari Tibba?
7. What made the narrator feel that the leopard was following him around? Was it true that the leopard was following him?
8. Where does the owner of the woods live?
9. Why do you think the poet stopped in the woods?
10. What kind of freedom does the poet desire for the country?

## Q. 2 (a) Match the column 'A' with column 'B'  (Any five)

## column 'A'

## column 'B'

The leopard

Red colour

club

Gestures

Queer

Strange

Downy

Space

Proxemics

Stick

Kinesics

Soft

crimson

Ruskin Bond

## (b) Write short note. (Any Two)

1. Write a note on Communication Barriers.
2. Discuss the Communication cycle.
3. Explain different Flows of communication.

## (C) Choose the correct option.(Any Three)

1. Communication without words is \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ communication.

( A . non verbal B . verbal C . written)

14

5

6

3

- 2.
- E mail, SMS , letters are examples of \_\_\_\_\_\_communication.
- ( A . oral B . written C . non-verbal)

3. The response to a sender's message is called\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

- ( A . receiver B . channel C . feedback)

4. The factors that make communication slow or ineffective are called\_\_\_\_\_\_.

- ( A . paralanguage B . barriers C . feedback)

## Q. 3 (a) Fill in the blanks using proper modal auxiliary. (Any four)

1. I \_\_\_\_\_\_ read English. (can, may, should)

2.

\_\_\_\_\_\_ you live long! (Can, Would, May)

3. We \_\_\_\_\_\_ help the needy. (must, should, may)
4. We \_\_\_\_\_\_ be careful while driving. (may, can, must)
5. My mother \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ run fast when she was in school. (can, could, might)

## (b) Fill in the blanks using appropriate form of the verb. (Any four)

1. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ you ever \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ English drama? (see)
2. The lights went off, while they \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ their dinner. (have)
3. Listen , someone \_\_\_\_\_\_you outside.(call)
4. 4.

We \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ for two hours. (wait)

5. He \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ the zoo next Sunday. (visit)

## (c) Do as directed. (Any Six)

1. My brother writes clearly. (Identify the Adverb)
2. Wow! What a scene. (Identify  the interjections)
3. Shyam is my brother. \_\_\_ study in the same class. (Use the Appropriate Pronoun)
4. He is \_\_\_\_\_ honest man. (Apply a suitable determiner from:  a, an, the)
5. There \_\_\_\_ a bunch of grapes in the basket. (Apply a suitable verb from : are, is, has)
6. Neither of the girls play well. (spot the error and rewrite the sentence)
7. There are book in the bag. (spot the error and rewrite the sentence)

## Q. 4 (a) Join these sentences using conjunctions given in the bracket.(Any Four)

1. The boys are afraid to go near that place. They have heard that it is haunted. (because)
2. We were walking to the other side of the island. We found a small stream.(when)
3. The girl did not buy that expensive pair of shoes. She liked them very much. (though)
4. I wanted to go with them very badly. My father would not let me go.(but)
5. He walked out of the room very angrily. He slammed the door hard.(and)

## (b) Match the sentences to the patterns.

A

B

SVO

The wall collapsed.

SVC

Ram is a boy.

SV

She works sincerely.

SVA

Heema reads a news paper.

## (c) Go through the sentences and change their tenses as directed. (Any Three)

1. The boy speaks the truth. (Change into Present Continuous Tense )
2. I know this. (Change into Simple Past )
3. Meera ate all the apples. (Change into Present Perfect Tense )
4. I have finished my assignment. (Change into Past Perfect Tense )

4

4

6

4

4

3

- (d) Use appropriate preposition from the bracket. (Any Three)

1. The cup is \_\_\_ the cupboard.
2. Take your legs \_\_\_ the table.
3. There are clouds \_\_\_\_ the town.
4. Tom sits \_\_ Lucy and James.

(in, over, between, off, under, among, near)

- Q. 5 (a) On behalf of the Principal, XYZ Polytechnic College, Parimal Cross Road, Ahmadabad, draft a letter to place an order for purchasing stationery items for your college store to the Manager, A to Z Stationery Suppliers, M. G. Road, Ahmadabad.

2. (b) Write an email to your HR head, recommending a friend for a vacant post.

7

7

or

- Q. 5 (a) Pooja  Patel,  Electrical  department,  ABC  Engineering  College,  Gandhinagar  wants  to  join internship  program  in  Bharat  Electric  Company.  Write  a  request  letter  to  the  CEO,  Bharat Electric Company, Hyderabad on her behalf. 7

2. (b) 2) Write an e-mail to your boss using the below stated lines:
3. Learnt that boss is taking up a new project- planned for investment of millions of dollars in IT unfortunately plan will not work- competitor has similar project- this project was a failure- no demand in the market- hence should stop this idea immediately. 7